An unavoidable part of being a programmer is that your programs are going to give a lot of errors.
You can't avoid bugs.
You can't avoid programs breaking a simple print function here with let's say a misspelt word with let's
say no comma.
If I run this.
We've been seeing this a lot right.
We've been seeing a lot of this red throughout this course.
A lot of these errors if I tried to add one plus let's say true click Run that works but then all of
a sudden I decide to add hello to one and yet again we see that red this time a type error an error
that crashes our program like this is called an exception and Python raises these exceptions whenever
the interpreter says hey I have no idea what you're doing.
Something's wrong.
I don't know what I'm doing anymore.
I'm going to stop whatever I'm doing and I'm going to give you an output.
This is bad because right now we're just playing.
But if we're Google and people depend on us to maybe check their email to watch YouTube videos if our
programs have exceptions and they stop working and they error out that's bad.
That could cost companies millions.
So how can we handle these exceptions that crash our program.
Well we need something called error handling.
It's a natural part of being a programmer and a great programmer is able to handle errors in their program
because instead of letting our programs just error we're able to handle them so that if we get something
like a type error like this we can actually handle that error within our programs.
And in this section we're going to learn all about them.
But the key takeaway is that error handling allows us to let the python script continue running even
if there are errors.
Sounds pretty interesting right.
Well before we get into that let's just talk about some of the errors that exist in Python.
We've already seen type error.
Where are we trying to do something between two different data types that aren't compatible such as
adding int and string and these built in exceptions in Python.
There's lots of them and I'll link to this resource you can take a look.
But if I scroll through here you see attribute error and of file layer we keep going we have a name
error.
We have so many error reference errors just a ton.
Let me just go through some of them that are quite common.
One is a syntax error.
If I do def and let's say who who and I forget to a semicolon here and I run this I get a syntax error.
It's not a standard Python syntax.
I have to fix my error I can also get something called a name error if let's say I use one plus name
like this and I click name like this.
You can see the red underline here.
I get undefined name so that if I run this code
I'll get a name.
The name is not defined we've seen type error.
But what about this.
What do we have a list let's say.
Ally.
One two three.
And I access.
Ally let's say an index of 5 5 run this I get an index error list Index is out of range.
What if we had a dictionary.
So let's say we're creating a dictionary here we'll say a equals 1.
And you know I will just leave it at that.
So this will be a dictionary if I do dictionary here.
And just try to access something that doesn't exist and I click Run I get a key error because I'm accessing
a key that doesn't exist we can also have let's say five divided by zero which should give me a Zero
Division error because I'm trying to divide by zero and well you just can't do that.
So there's lots of errors or built in exceptions in python.
Now you don't have to memorize any of these.
Most of the time they'll come up in your program and you'll know what they mean.
But you can always use this as a reference to read them.
The question you should be asking yourself is how do we avoid these because most programs aren't just
us typing information.
Usually programs interact with the outside world.
Right.
When I log into my email I let a user use their email and password when I play a game I let a user control
a character.
So programs are constantly interacting with the outside world and they have to make sure that whatever
input they get is the right type that they're expecting because if they receive something that they
didn't expect like no and this number just happens to be let's say zero that we give it while this user
broke our program.
So we need to handle these situations where a user might give something bad that we wouldn't want in
the next video we're going to explore how we can handle our errors I'll see in that one.